[Music]
Hello friends, welcome to Investment
Academy Friday. Let's talk about a
financial planning topic.
Today's topic is insurance, health insurance
related. We've made a lot of other
videos on health insurance, so you
can check those out too. But today's topic is
very interesting, it's
about pre-existing diseases. So, if
you want to get health insurance and you
have any disease, there are many
types of diseases, and they are often known.
But there's a
big clause about any existing disease
in health insurance. I mean,
what were the diseases I had before taking it? There are a lot of
complications,
clauses, terms and conditions on that,
which we'll clarify a little in this video. So, first, we'll
understand what an existing
disease is, what is its definition, what should
we keep in mind, right?
Policy, and how can we minimize it, that is,
how can we minimize its impact. So, let's talk a little about
these three or four things.  If you are
talking to him then
definitely watch the video till the end and don't forget to like it if
you liked the video and yes,
winter coupon
code is running on investment.in with 40% discount so
if you haven't used it yet, have
n't seen our model portfolio, stockometer
fundamentals or these products and
you invest in mutual funds,
stocks or financial planning
products as well then do not miss it,
definitely check it and definitely use the winter coupon code with 40%
discount and you will also get some
free complimentary, we are giving this jacket of ours
complimentary
with some plans so let's start so
what is the definition of pre-existing disease so
basically what it is is that when you are
taking insurance, health insurance, if you have had
any disease till 4 years before that, then it
comes under free existing disease for 4 years, if you had any disease 4 years before that,
after that there is no problem in 4 years,
you are absolutely
healthy in that, then  It does
not come under existing disease but if you have had any disease in the last four years, be it
acute,
chronic or any type of disease, then
you will have to tell that to these health
insurance people and that comes under the
scope of your pre-existing disease, it is
closed in that, okay now
what is the matter of its close, so the matter of close is that
when you buy,
after that the health insurance company considers that disease which
you had four years ago as a pre-
existing disease, okay, it varies from two years to four
years
depending on your health insurance plan, but
minimum I have seen that the waiting period is from 24 months to only 48
months, it means that if
I had any disease, okay,
I have
diabetes, then
now I have taken health insurance,
after that, from two years to four years
depending on the policy, then I will have to wait for minimum 2 years so that if I get
any health related claim, then
related to diabetes, if I have it  If any claim comes,
I cannot file a claim for the first 24 months
minimum and depending on the policy of 48
months, sometimes there is a waiting period, they
say waiting period for pre-
existing diseases, so when you are
taking health insurance, then
definitely watch that waiting video,
what are my pre-existing diseases,
we must take care of all that as well, okay
and if you do not tell
about pre-existing diseases, then those
complications increase, that is
considered fraud and many times the
most reason for claim rejection, the maximum
claim rejection, is that
we do not tell about the existing disease, it happens because of that
and I am saying seriously,
many times it happens that we ourselves do not
know that we had this disease and later we come to
know then those mistakes happen, if this happens then
help checkup etc. should be done, that is why
when you are taking health insurance
also, if the
insurance company does a health checkup  If you are having problems then do it, you will
also get to know about it, many times such things which
we did not know earlier, okay, that is
because of existing diseases, many
times loading charges are levied, if you have
any existing disease,
your premium is a little higher because they
feel that brother, this can also come back,
right, so if you are a higher risk customer,
not healthy, then your loading charge, your
premium will mostly be higher than each other, right, the
company can also impose permanent exclusion, if there is any such disease on which the company
feels that friend, this can cause a lot of
expenses again and again, okay, and especially
after a further period, right, then they can also tell you
that
brother, this
is permanently excluded, that you cannot claim for this disease at any time, so that can
also happen, depending on the further and
your disease and all the plans that you are taking,
okay, after that they can also impose restrictions, that brother,
brother, we  You
will pay only this much, if the same disease returns, then it
is okay, then the
company can also impose restrictions on payment etc. on the particular price and
after completion of the waiting period, if
you have completed the waiting period, there is
no question of any claim till the waiting period, they will
not make any claim even after the waiting period, they can bring
more descriptions, can make
exclusions, can impose loading charges, so
all these things can happen even after that,
okay now there is some thing that many times people
say that brother, I had
posted a video on portability,
you must have seen it too, so if we port, that
means we port from one health insurance
to another health insurance, then
your waiting period of Priya is carried forward,
okay, so that is a
thing to be kept in mind, if you increase your time shot, that
means I had taken a plan of 10 lakhs, I had taken
health insurance earlier
and now I have taken it for 20 lakhs, then a
separate waiting period will start for the extra 10 lakhs,
not for my 10 lakhs, that will be separate  The waiting
period of Rs 10 lakh will be separate. Okay,
if a new member is added, okay,
your plan is for three people, you have added one more person,
okay, then there will be a
separate waiting period for all the existing diseases of that new person who has been added,
all these things have to be kept in mind because
many times this happens, there is confusion
over it, then you get very
worried, all these problems get
rejected, so this happens very often,
okay, there are some such diseases too, do
you know, that you do not have free existing diseases, that is, there is
no disease,
okay, there are some such diseases too which are
mostly listed, I have
also shown a chart here, okay, so
if you see this chart, there are many
diseases in it, so if you get this disease,
okay like tonsillitis, okay, it is a
normal disease, then if you get this, then
after that there will be a separate waiting period of up to 24 months, that
brother, if you have this disease,
now you cannot make any claim for 24 months.  You
can wait after 24 months,
okay, so these are some diseases which are
always considered pre-existing,
meaning there is always a waiting period on them, in a
way, okay, so
you also have to keep in mind that this also happens sometimes like this, so
now what is it, how to do, I mean
if I have this existing disease, then
how do I reduce it, what to do, what
not to do, so
we can talk about some tips on it, so first of all
we should
not hide the pre-existing disease
because I am saying that most of the time, the
rejection of the policy happens because of this, secondly,
if you had any underlying disease, okay, then you
can wait till 48 months, the period is considered to be only up to 48 months, the
sensible thing you should do is that you will wait that much, it is
better to clear the waiting period, so that is accepted, but
many people think that let me take
health insurance only after 48 years, then
my premium will also be less, so all these
things many times because the premium  If
you tell me obviously then mostly your
premium will be high, so because of that you have to
reduce the premium a little, so many people do this about it
because again Federer, we are without
risk, right, for such a significant time, so if it is very
high then you
should not do that, but many do this, many
different plans
also have waiting periods, like I
said, there are plans with 24 months waiting period
and there are plans with 48 months, so check which one has
minimum waiting period,
right, so keep that as a criterion for short,
if you have something like this, right, there are many such
plans which copenhand
you, if you have this existing
disease, you have this disease
again, or some problem has come in it, then
you will have to do this much copayment, you
know the video of copayment, right, so that was also bad,
so definitely check it, otherwise I will
also share the link here with you, right,
in the description, what is that payment,
many times it is mentioned in the copayment also that such
plans  There are also plans that you can make a payment to me
that if my illness returns, I will
contribute a little, the company will contribute a little,
so you can also go for those types of plans,
okay, it is
interesting that in corporate plans,
pre-existing diseases are mostly
covered without a waiting period, okay,
because those are big plans, especially the
corporate plans of big companies, so that is
a very good way, if
you have any pre-existing disease, then you
can add your family members to the corporate plan, okay,
so in this way it gets managed a little bit,
you can get added to your spouse's corporate plan,
or if you are
56 years old, then you
can get added to your child's corporate plan, so in this
way,
existing diseases are mostly covered without a waiting
period in the corporate plan, that is a good option,
if you want to do it, okay, okay, there are
some specific plans which Priya offers, so let me give
you an example, now
Again I am not advertising this
plan which we have only found in our research,
okay so there is a plan of Star Diabetes,
Star has a diabetic plan,
if you have diabetes then they
cover your disease from the first day, but
obviously the premium etc. will be extra, that
means it will have to be followed by the main person only,
okay but that is the first day, they
cover that, right and there is also a plan in
which the waiting period is lower, that means only 12 months, there is a
waiting period of zero months,
again it depends and
your premium will be as per that, similarly
Aditya Birla also has a Health Platinum
plan, in that too many
existing diseases like diabetes,
blood pressure, asthma, these types
of pre-existing diseases are covered from the first day,
okay but again today I said
you have to check, that is, you have to see how much is
my normal health insurance premium,
how much is the premium in this health insurance, if I
go directly to the doctor then how much will it cost, so that  Do a
little calculation and
keep it in mind, okay,
plan accordingly, okay, so options which you can take to
reduce your impact, so
what happens many times is that there is a huge load,
especially our chronic diseases keep
coming again and again, there is a lot of expenditure,
okay, so because of that,
we can figure out all these things in the plans, we
can understand all these things, so I hope that
you liked this video,
your major questions regarding existing diseases would have been solved, but still
you feel that you are not very clear about any question
related to health in Sharan, then definitely write in the comment section
and if you have any interest in any topic like financial planning topic or
health insurance, life insurance,
you feel that this I should cover in this
video, then please definitely write in the comment section,
okay, before leaving, please like the video
and also share it if you
like the video in your group and if you have
not subscribed to the channel yet  So
please subscribe have a great time
friends Jai Hind
[Music]